Adds Aspect ratio atomic (#556)
microsoft/atlas-design: site/src/atomics/aspect-ratio.md

---
title: Aspect ratio
description: Aspect ratio related atomic css classes for the Atlas Design System
template: standard
classType: Atomics
classPrefixes:
  - aspect-ratio
---

# Aspect Ratio Atomics

> Aspect ratio atomics are used to set the width-to-height ratio of an element, even if the parent container or viewport size changes.

Reviewer: Suggestion only: perhaps write up your general views on using width with this? Something like: 

> ... Note that in some scenarios, elements will need to have `width: 100%` and/or `height: 100%` set. This can be done with the use of atomics such as `width-full` or a component like [`image](./components.

I don't believe we have any height atomics at the moment, so depending on your thoughts, we can commit that part of the above statement.

---
title: Aspect ratio
description: Aspect ratio related atomic css classes for the Atlas Design System
template: standard
classType: Atomics
classPrefixes:
  - aspect-ratio
---

# Aspect Ratio Atomics

Aspect ratio atomics are used to set the width-to-height ratio of an element, even if the parent container or viewport size changes.

| cssproperty  | ratio                               | screensize |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------- | ---------- |
| aspect-ratio | `1-1`, `2-1`, `4-3`, `9-16`, `16-9` | N/A        |

## Usage

> Here are examples of aspect ratio atomics being applied to `video` and `img` elements. When used on `video` or `iframe` elements with the matching aspect ratio, it will remove the black bars and scale responsively.

Reviewer 2: Can we add a little more context on what "the black bars" are and why they occur in the first place?

```html
<div class="padding-sm width-500-desktop">
	<video
		controls
		name="media"
		class="aspect-ratio-16-9"
		src="~/src/scaffold/media/aspect-ratio-video-16-9.mp4"
		type="video/mp4"
	></video>
</div>
```

## Additional information

> In some scenarios an element's intrincis size is smaller than it's container size, so the ratio isn't calculated. These elements will need to have `width: 100%` or set to calculate the height. This can be done with the use of [width atomics](./width.md) or [ image components](../components/image.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In some scenarios an element's intrinsic size is smaller than its container size, so the ratio isn't calculated. These elements will need to have its width set to `width: 100%` or set to calculate the height. This can be done with the use of [width atomics](./width.md) or [ image components](../components/image.md).
```

> ---

Reviewer: Given just how useful (very!) these will be for images. Perhaps it's worth a small section in the Image component documentations that mentions aspect-ratio atomics and links to this page?

https://design.learn.microsoft.com/components/image.html

title: Aspect ratio
description: Aspect ratio related atomic css classes for the Atlas Design System
template: standard
classType: Atomics
classPrefixes:
  - aspect-ratio
---

# Aspect Ratio Atomics

Ratio atomics are used to add a fluid aspect ratio to an element. The element will scale to fill 100% width of the container while matching the height to the defined aspect ratio.

| cssproperty  | ratio                                             | screensize |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------------------- | ---------- |

> | aspect-ratio | `1-1`, `2-1`, `3-2`, `4-3`, `5-3`, `9-16`, `16-9` | N/A        |

Reviewer: 4-3 and 5-3 definitely still needed?

Author: Removed 3-2 and 5-3. Left 4-3 because it's a standard video and monitor ratio.

## Usage

Here are examples of ratio atomics, used on `iframe`, `video` and `img` elements to scale elements. When used on a `video` element or `iframe` video with the matching aspect ratio, it will remove the black bars and scale responsively.

```html
  <div class="padding-sm width-500-desktop">
  	<video controls name="media" class="width-500 aspect-ratio-16-9" src="~/src/scaffold/media/aspect-ratio-video-16-9.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
  	</video>
  </div>
```

```html
<div class="width-250 padding-sm">
	<iframe
		id="embed-iframe"
		class="aspect-ratio-9-16"
		src="~/src/scaffold/media/aspect-ratio-video-9-16.mp4"
		title="Vertical video player"
		frameborder="0"
		sandbox
	></iframe>
</div>
```

```html
<div class="width-100 padding-xxs">
	<img
		class="aspect-ratio-1-1"
		alt=""

> 		role="presentation"

Reviewer: Wondering if keeping the image around might be better for unsighted developers.

```
alt="An example image use to show an aspect ratio of 1 to 1."
```
then remove `role="presentation"`?

Author: done

		src="~/src/scaffold/media/aspect-ratio-square.png"
	/>
</div>
<div class="width-200 padding-xxs">

> 	<img

Author: done

---
title: Aspect ratio
description: Aspect ratio related atomic css classes for the Atlas Design System
template: standard
classType: Atomics
classPrefixes:
  - aspect-ratio
---

# Aspect ratio Atomics

Ratio atomics are used to add a fluid aspect ratio to an element. The element will scale to fill 100% width of the container while matching the height to the defined aspect ratio.

> | modifiers | ratio                                                                                   |

Author: Updated

</div>
```

## Additional information

In some scenarios an element's intrincis size is smaller than it's container size, so the ratio isn't calculated. These elements will need to have `width: 100%` or set to calculate the height. This can be done with the use of [width atomics](./width.md) or [ image components](../components/image.md).

```html
<div class="width-150 padding-xxs">
	<div class="image">
		<img
			class="aspect-ratio-1-1"
			alt="An example image with an aspect ratio of 1 by 1"
			src="~/src/scaffold/media/aspect-ratio-square.png"
		/>
	</div>
</div>
```

> In other scenarios an element has a different intrinsic aspect ratio. Change the ratio without

Reviewer: Changing
